Docs: Final edits, Style enhancements, Vale checks (#38024)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-oidc-code-flow-authentication-tutorial.adoc

== Architecture

In this example, we build a simple web application with a single page:

* `/index.html`

This page is protected and only authenticated users can access the page.

== Solution

Follow the instructions in the next sections and create the application step by step.
Alternatively, you can go right to the completed example.

> Clone the Git repository by using `git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}`, or download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the Git repository by running a `git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}` command, or download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].
```

I'm not sure it is totally correct from the language perspective, but `by using` reads a little bit unusual

Author: Good point. Thank you. Updated per your suggestion.

== Architecture

In this example, we build a simple web application with a single page:

* `/index.html`

> This page is protected and only authenticated users can access the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page is protected, and only authenticated users can access it.
```

public class TokenResource {

   /**
    * Injection point for the ID token issued by the OpenID Connect provider
    */
   @Inject
   @IdToken
   JsonWebToken idToken;

   /**
    * Injection point for the access token issued by the OpenID Connect provider
    */
   @Inject
   JsonWebToken accessToken;

   /**
    * Injection point for the refresh token issued by the OpenID Connect provider
    */
   @Inject
   RefreshToken refreshToken;

   /**
    * Returns the tokens available to the application.
    * This endpoint exists only for demonstration purposes.
    * Do not expose these tokens in a real application.
    *

>     * @return a HTML page containing the tokens available to the application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * @return an HTML page containing the tokens available to the application.
```

This endpoint has ID, access, and refresh tokens injected.
It returns a `preferred_username` claim from the ID token, a `scope` claim from the access token, and also a refresh token availability status.

> Note that you do not have to inject the tokens - it is only required if the endpoint needs to use the ID token to interact with the currently-authenticated user or use the access token to access a downstream service on behalf of this user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that you do not have to inject the tokens - it is only required if the endpoint needs to use the ID token to interact with the currently authenticated user or use the access token to access a downstream service on behalf of this user.
```

Introducing `-` reads unusual

Author: I added the hyphen to join the words together as both together formed an adjective that modified the word "user". From a grammatical perspective, we would typically have a hyphen in this instance. However, I did some more research into these types of adjectives and both options are acceptable here. Therefore, I will remove in this instance again, per your suggestion.

> Finally, the `quarkus.http.auth.permission.authenticated` permission is set to tell Quarkus about the paths you want to protect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, the `quarkus.http.auth.permission.authenticated` permission is set to tell Quarkus about the paths you want to protect.
```

Author: @MichalMaler - not sure what was changed here?

Reviewer 2: Not sure how this get into creation of a diff. Feel free to close this one :)

Reviewer 3: I believe this happens when the writer's editor is configured to trim whitespace from the end of the line (the standard practice), and GitHub is configured to hide whitespace changes.

Author: Thanks for clarifying @rolfedh and thanks @MichalMaler also for your review and clarification.

> In this case, all paths are being protected by a policy that ensures that only `authenticated` users are allowed to access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, all paths are being protected by a policy ensuring that only `authenticated` users can access them.
```

You should be able to access your Keycloak Server at http://localhost:8180[localhost:8180].

To access the Keycloak Administration Console, log in as the `admin` user.
The username is `admin` and the password is `admin`.

To create a new realm, import the link:{quickstarts-tree-url}/security-openid-connect-web-authentication-quickstart/config/quarkus-realm.json[realm configuration file].
For more information, see the Keycloak documentation about how to https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/index.html#configuring-realms[create and configure a new realm].

== Run the application in dev and JVM modes

To run the application in dev mode, use:

include::{includes}/devtools/dev.adoc[]

> When you are finished exploring the application in dev mode, you can run it as a standard Java application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After exploring the application in dev mode, you can run it as a standard Java application.
```

Author: Reads much more smoothly, thanks for the suggestion!

To test the application, open your browser and access the following URL:

* http://localhost:8080/tokens[http://localhost:8080/tokens]

If everything is working as expected, you are redirected to the Keycloak server to authenticate.

To authenticate to the application, enter the following credentials at the Keycloak login page:

* Username: *alice*
* Password: *alice*

After clicking the `Login` button, you are redirected back to the application and a session cookie will be created.

> The session for this demo is temporary and, on every page refresh, you will be asked to re-authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The session for this demo is valid for a short period of time and, on every page refresh, you will be asked to re-authenticate.
```

Author: Updated per your proposal.

To test the application, open your browser and access the following URL:

* http://localhost:8080/tokens[http://localhost:8080/tokens]

> If everything is working as expected, you are redirected to the Keycloak server to authenticate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If everything works as expected, you are redirected to the Keycloak server to authenticate.
```

To authenticate to the application, enter the following credentials at the Keycloak login page:

* Username: *alice*
* Password: *alice*

> After clicking the `Login` button, you are redirected back to the application and a session cookie will be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After clicking the `Login` button, you are redirected back to the application, and a session cookie will be created.
```

> The session for this demo is valid for a short period of time and, on every page refresh, you will be asked to re-authenticate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The session for this demo is valid for a short period, and on every page refresh, you will be asked to re-authenticate.
```

Reviewer: All the above suggestions make sense IMHO but this one looks like an over optimization :-), `period of time` reads clearer to me

Author: Thank you both for your suggestions. I will keep this one as is then, that is, keep as "period of time"

== References
* xref:security-overview.adoc[Quarkus Security overview]
* xref:security-oidc-code-flow-authentication.adoc[OIDC code flow mechanism for protecting web applications]
* xref:security-openid-connect-providers.adoc[Configuring well-known OpenID Connect providers]
* xref:security-openid-connect-client-reference.adoc[OpenID Connect and OAuth2 Client and Filters reference guide]
* xref:security-openid-connect-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Keycloak]
* xref:security-jwt-build.adoc[Sign and encrypt JWT tokens with SmallRye JWT Build]
* xref:security-authentication-mechanisms.adoc#oidc-jwt-oauth2-comparison[Choosing between OpenID Connect, SmallRye JWT, and OAuth2 authentication mechanisms]
* xref:security-keycloak-admin-client.adoc[Quarkus Keycloak Admin Client]
* https://www.keycloak.org/documentation.html[Keycloak Documentation]
* xref:security-oidc-auth0-tutorial.adoc[Protect Quarkus web application by using Auth0 OpenID Connect provider]
* https://openid.net/connect/[OpenID Connect]

> * https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519[JSON Web token]

Author: Thanks for the additional clairification. Updated per your suggestion.
